Angular - CodeSchool/README.md, before:

#Angular!

Basically, Angular is a tool used for adding dinamicy in web pages/web apps. Thinking about a page with buttons and menus, each time you want an action to happen, you'd need to send a request to the server and it'd return the whole page again. Angular is a powerful tool to change this behavior, so that the server only sends the information needed for the changes on the page, without having to reload it fully.

[TOC]

##Modules

An AngularJS module defines an application. A module is a container for the application controllers, services, filters, directives, etc. So, we need to declare a module with:

```javascript
var someVariableName = angular.module("someModuleName",[]);
```
So, parameters:

1. Name of the module
2. List of modules "someModuleName" depends on.

Wherever we want to use this module, we need to have a reference to it with *ng-app*. So, if we want to use it in an HTML page, we would do the following>

```html

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html ng-app = "example"> <!--Necessary to use "example" directives inside the html document-->
<head>
	<script type="text/javascript">
		var app = angular.module("example",[]); //this should go inside app.js
	</script>
</head>
<body>
</body>
</html>
```
##Controllers

Controllers are where we define our app's behavior by defining functions and values.

~~Maybe we can create a parallel between a controller and an object in POO.~~ We can declare a simple one as:

```javascript
	app.controller('StoreController',function(){
		this.product = gem; //product is a property of the controller.
	});

	var gem = {
		name: 'Dodecahedron',
		price: 2.95,
		description: '. . .',
```

To put it into the html, we use *ng-controller* directive:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html ng-app = "example"> <!--Necessary to use "example" directives inside the html document-->
<head>
	<script type="text/javascript">
		var app = angular.module("example",[]); //this should go inside app.js
	</script>
</head>
<body ng-controller = 'StoreController as store'> <!--ng-controller is a directive, StoreController is the name of our controller and store is our alias-->
{{store.product.name}}<!--ALIAS.CONTROLLER PROPERTY."FIELD"-->
</body>
</html>
```

##Directives

####NG-APP####

As explained in the Module section, this is for attaching the application module to the page.

```html
<html ng-app="store">
```
####NG-CONTROLLER####

As explained in the Controllers section, this is for attaching the Controller function to the page.

```html
<body ng-controller="StoreController as store">
```

####NG-SHOW####

Allow us to control the visibility of an HTML element:

```html
<h1> {{store.product.name}} </h1>
<h2> ${{store.product.price}}</h2>
<p>  {{store.product.description}}</p>
<button ng-show="store.product.canPurchase"> Add to Cart</button>
```
####NG-HIDE####

Yeap, exactly the opposite of the above.

####NG-REPEAT####

This is a very useful one, so we can show several items from an array.

So, we have:
Controller: store
Property: products

The code says:
1. use the StoreController (alias = store)
2. repeat each item on the products array, from the controller store as product(alias)

```html
<div ng-controller = "StoreController as store"> 
	<div ng-repeat = "product in store.products">
		<h1> {{product.name}} </h1>
		<h2> ${{product.price}}</h2>
		<p>  {{product.description}}</p>
	</div>
</div>
```
####NG-SRC####

To display images:

```html
<h3>
	{{product.name}}
	<em class="pull-right">{{product.price | currency}}</em>
	<img ng-src="{{product.images[0].full}}">
</h3>
```

####NG-CLICK####

It raises an event when that part of the html is clicked. It takes an expression for assigning values.

```html
<ul class="nav nav-pills">
		<li> <a href ng-click="tab = 1">Description</a></li>
		<li> <a href ng-click="tab = 2">Specifications</a></li>
		<li> <a href ng-click="tab = 3">Reviews</a></li>
	</ul>
```
When you click, the {{tab}} value automatically gets updated. You can use {{tab}} to display it.

####NG-INIT####

Allows us to evaluate an expression in the current scope

```html
<section ng-init="tab = 1">
				<ul class="nav nav-pills">
					<li> <a href ng-click="tab = 1">Description</a></li>
					<li> <a href ng-click="tab = 2">Specifications</a></li>
					<li> <a href ng-click="tab = 3">Reviews</a></li>
				</ul>
			</section>
			<div class="panel" ng-show="tab===1">
				<h4>Description</h4>
				<p>{{product.description}}</p>
			</div>
</section>
```

####NG-CLASS####

Okay, this one is a bit tricky. An example:

```html
<section ng-init="tab = 1">
				<ul class="nav nav-pills">
					<li ng-class="{active:tab===1}"> <a href ng-click="tab = 1">Description</a></li>
					<li ng-class="{active:tab===2}"> <a href ng-click="tab = 2">Specifications</a></li>
					<li ng-class="{active:tab===3}"> <a href ng-click="tab = 3">Reviews</a></li>
				</ul>
			</section>
```
So, this basically means that:
If tab===X, X being the value being compared in each <li>, then we set the li class to active. This is the format in which we pass an object to the ng-class directive: 
*{nameOfTheClass:booleanExpression}*

We can use a simple string too:

```html
<section ng-init="tab = 1">
				<ul class="nav nav-pills">
					<li ng-class="active"> <a href ng-click="tab = 1">Description</a></li>
					<li ng-class="active"> <a href ng-click="tab = 2">Specifications</a></li>
					<li ng-class="active"> <a href ng-click="tab = 3">Reviews</a></li>
				</ul>
			</section>
```
So we just set a class.

####NG-MODEL####

This is a great one, you use it so you bind input fields to global properties. We can have an input field like this:

```html
<input ng-model="review.author" type="email" />
```
Using *ng-model*, now we can get the value to validate or to show it directly on the page using the properties syntax:

```html
<cite>by: {{review.author}}</cite><br>
```

####NG-SUBMIT####

It allows us to call a function when the form is submitted.

```html
<form name="reviewForm" ng-submit="reviewCtrl.addReview(product)"></form>
```
So, when the form is submitted, we'll call the function ADDREVIEW, in the REVIEWCTRL controller, sending PRODUCT as an parameter

###CUSTOM DIRECTIVES###
	
You can use custom directives when you have a piece of html that is going to be used in two or more parts of the website/app. You have to create the directive within the js file:

```javascript
app.directive('productTitle',function(){
		return{
			restrict: 'E',
			templateUrl: 'product-title.html',
		};
	});
```
The syntax is:

```javascript
app.directive('nameOfTheTagInCamelCase',function(){
		return{
			restrict: 'E', //You can use 'E' for ELEMENT, 'A' for ATTRIBUTE
			templateUrl: 'product-title.html', //You can use "template: ..." to indicate a single thing like "<h3> example </h3>"
			//Or you can use "templateUrl: ..." to indicate a file with your html code
		};
	});
```

In your HTML, you will create a tag like:

```html
<product-title></product-title>
```

###CONTROLLER INSIDE DIRECTIVE###

	This is a very good practice to organize your code. You can put your whole controller code inside the controller property of your directive. Example:

```javascript
app.directive('productPanels',function(){
		return{
			restrict: 'E', //Element
			templateUrl: 'product-panels.html', //this page will contain your html for the panels section
			controller: function() //here you can write your controller
			{
				this.tab = 1;

				this.selectTab = function(setTab)
				{
					this.tab = setTab;
				};

				this.isSelected = function(checkTab)
				{
					return this.tab === checkTab;
				};
			},
			controllerAs: 'panel' //just the alias, like "PanelController as panel"
		};
	});
```


##DUNNO THE NAME

#####PUSH####

Use it to add a new item to an array
```javascript
this.addReview = function(product)
	{
		product.reviews.push(this.review); //Putting this.review (the one we are creating) to the reviews array of product.
	}
```

##FILTERS##

First, it is important for us to know what the PIPE CARACTHER does:
	| -> Take the result of the first expression and send the output into the second expression.

So, when we have:

```html
<div ng-controller = "StoreController as store">
	<ul class="list-group">
		<li class="list-group-item" ng-repeat="product in store.products">
			<h3>
				{{product.name}}
				<em class="pull-right">{{product.price | currency}}</em>
			</h3>
		</li>
	</ul>
</div>
```
We are saying:

1. Get the value of product.price
2. Output it as a currency (FILTER)

It'll automatically add the dollar sign and the decimals.

###Some filters###

```html
{{'1388123412323' | date:'MM/dd/yyyy' @ h:mma'}} //Convert date

{{'octagon gem' | uppercase}} //all upper/lower case

{{'My Description' | limitTo:8}}//limit the number of characters

<li ng-repeat="product in store.products | limiteTo:3">//limit the number of repeats

<li ng-repeat="product in store.products | orderBy> '-price'">//order by "-" = descending order

```
##Dependencies##

	

	
##References

Angular modules: [W3 Schools](http://www.w3schools.com/angular/angular_modules.asp)

Most of the things: [CodeSchool](http://campus.codeschool.com/courses/shaping-up-with-angular-js)

Commit message:

Modules and Services
The End :)

Angular - CodeSchool/README.md, after:

#Angular!

Basically, Angular is a tool used for adding dinamicy in web pages/web apps. Thinking about a page with buttons and menus, each time you want an action to happen, you'd need to send a request to the server and it'd return the whole page again. Angular is a powerful tool to change this behavior, so that the server only sends the information needed for the changes on the page, without having to reload it fully.

[TOC]

##Modules

An AngularJS module defines an application. A module is a container for the application controllers, services, filters, directives, etc. So, we need to declare a module with:

```javascript
var someVariableName = angular.module("someModuleName",[]);
```
So, parameters:

1. Name of the module
2. List of modules "someModuleName" depends on.

Wherever we want to use this module, we need to have a reference to it with *ng-app*. So, if we want to use it in an HTML page, we would do the following>

```html

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html ng-app = "example"> <!--Necessary to use "example" directives inside the html document-->
<head>
	<script type="text/javascript">
		var app = angular.module("example",[]); //this should go inside app.js
	</script>
</head>
<body>
</body>
</html>
```
##Controllers

Controllers are where we define our app's behavior by defining functions and values.

~~Maybe we can create a parallel between a controller and an object in POO.~~ We can declare a simple one as:

```javascript
	app.controller('StoreController',function(){
		this.product = gem; //product is a property of the controller.
	});

	var gem = {
		name: 'Dodecahedron',
		price: 2.95,
		description: '. . .',
```

To put it into the html, we use *ng-controller* directive:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html ng-app = "example"> <!--Necessary to use "example" directives inside the html document-->
<head>
	<script type="text/javascript">
		var app = angular.module("example",[]); //this should go inside app.js
	</script>
</head>
<body ng-controller = 'StoreController as store'> <!--ng-controller is a directive, StoreController is the name of our controller and store is our alias-->
{{store.product.name}}<!--ALIAS.CONTROLLER PROPERTY."FIELD"-->
</body>
</html>
```

##Directives

####NG-APP####

As explained in the Module section, this is for attaching the application module to the page.

```html
<html ng-app="store">
```
####NG-CONTROLLER####

As explained in the Controllers section, this is for attaching the Controller function to the page.

```html
<body ng-controller="StoreController as store">
```

####NG-SHOW####

Allow us to control the visibility of an HTML element:

```html
<h1> {{store.product.name}} </h1>
<h2> ${{store.product.price}}</h2>
<p>  {{store.product.description}}</p>
<button ng-show="store.product.canPurchase"> Add to Cart</button>
```
####NG-HIDE####

Yeap, exactly the opposite of the above.

####NG-REPEAT####

This is a very useful one, so we can show several items from an array.

So, we have:
Controller: store
Property: products

The code says:
1. use the StoreController (alias = store)
2. repeat each item on the products array, from the controller store as product(alias)

```html
<div ng-controller = "StoreController as store"> 
	<div ng-repeat = "product in store.products">
		<h1> {{product.name}} </h1>
		<h2> ${{product.price}}</h2>
		<p>  {{product.description}}</p>
	</div>
</div>
```
####NG-SRC####

To display images:

```html
<h3>
	{{product.name}}
	<em class="pull-right">{{product.price | currency}}</em>
	<img ng-src="{{product.images[0].full}}">
</h3>
```

####NG-CLICK####

It raises an event when that part of the html is clicked. It takes an expression for assigning values.

```html
<ul class="nav nav-pills">
		<li> <a href ng-click="tab = 1">Description</a></li>
		<li> <a href ng-click="tab = 2">Specifications</a></li>
		<li> <a href ng-click="tab = 3">Reviews</a></li>
	</ul>
```
When you click, the {{tab}} value automatically gets updated. You can use {{tab}} to display it.

####NG-INIT####

Allows us to evaluate an expression in the current scope

```html
<section ng-init="tab = 1">
				<ul class="nav nav-pills">
					<li> <a href ng-click="tab = 1">Description</a></li>
					<li> <a href ng-click="tab = 2">Specifications</a></li>
					<li> <a href ng-click="tab = 3">Reviews</a></li>
				</ul>
			</section>
			<div class="panel" ng-show="tab===1">
				<h4>Description</h4>
				<p>{{product.description}}</p>
			</div>
</section>
```

####NG-CLASS####

Okay, this one is a bit tricky. An example:

```html
<section ng-init="tab = 1">
				<ul class="nav nav-pills">
					<li ng-class="{active:tab===1}"> <a href ng-click="tab = 1">Description</a></li>
					<li ng-class="{active:tab===2}"> <a href ng-click="tab = 2">Specifications</a></li>
					<li ng-class="{active:tab===3}"> <a href ng-click="tab = 3">Reviews</a></li>
				</ul>
			</section>
```
So, this basically means that:
If tab===X, X being the value being compared in each <li>, then we set the li class to active. This is the format in which we pass an object to the ng-class directive: 
*{nameOfTheClass:booleanExpression}*

We can use a simple string too:

```html
<section ng-init="tab = 1">
				<ul class="nav nav-pills">
					<li ng-class="active"> <a href ng-click="tab = 1">Description</a></li>
					<li ng-class="active"> <a href ng-click="tab = 2">Specifications</a></li>
					<li ng-class="active"> <a href ng-click="tab = 3">Reviews</a></li>
				</ul>
			</section>
```
So we just set a class.

####NG-MODEL####

This is a great one, you use it so you bind input fields to global properties. We can have an input field like this:

```html
<input ng-model="review.author" type="email" />
```
Using *ng-model*, now we can get the value to validate or to show it directly on the page using the properties syntax:

```html
<cite>by: {{review.author}}</cite><br>
```

####NG-SUBMIT####

It allows us to call a function when the form is submitted.

```html
<form name="reviewForm" ng-submit="reviewCtrl.addReview(product)"></form>
```
So, when the form is submitted, we'll call the function ADDREVIEW, in the REVIEWCTRL controller, sending PRODUCT as an parameter

###CUSTOM DIRECTIVES###
	
You can use custom directives when you have a piece of html that is going to be used in two or more parts of the website/app. You have to create the directive within the js file:

```javascript
app.directive('productTitle',function(){
		return{
			restrict: 'E',
			templateUrl: 'product-title.html',
		};
	});
```
The syntax is:

```javascript
app.directive('nameOfTheTagInCamelCase',function(){
		return{
			restrict: 'E', //You can use 'E' for ELEMENT, 'A' for ATTRIBUTE
			templateUrl: 'product-title.html', //You can use "template: ..." to indicate a single thing like "<h3> example </h3>"
			//Or you can use "templateUrl: ..." to indicate a file with your html code
		};
	});
```

In your HTML, you will create a tag like:

```html
<product-title></product-title>
```

###CONTROLLER INSIDE DIRECTIVE###

	This is a very good practice to organize your code. You can put your whole controller code inside the controller property of your directive. Example:

```javascript
app.directive('productPanels',function(){
		return{
			restrict: 'E', //Element
			templateUrl: 'product-panels.html', //this page will contain your html for the panels section
			controller: function() //here you can write your controller
			{
				this.tab = 1;

				this.selectTab = function(setTab)
				{
					this.tab = setTab;
				};

				this.isSelected = function(checkTab)
				{
					return this.tab === checkTab;
				};
			},
			controllerAs: 'panel' //just the alias, like "PanelController as panel"
		};
	});
```


##DUNNO THE NAME

#####PUSH####

Use it to add a new item to an array
```javascript
this.addReview = function(product)
	{
		product.reviews.push(this.review); //Putting this.review (the one we are creating) to the reviews array of product.
	}
```

##FILTERS##

First, it is important for us to know what the PIPE CARACTHER does:
	| -> Take the result of the first expression and send the output into the second expression.

So, when we have:

```html
<div ng-controller = "StoreController as store">
	<ul class="list-group">
		<li class="list-group-item" ng-repeat="product in store.products">
			<h3>
				{{product.name}}
				<em class="pull-right">{{product.price | currency}}</em>
			</h3>
		</li>
	</ul>
</div>
```
We are saying:

1. Get the value of product.price
2. Output it as a currency (FILTER)

It'll automatically add the dollar sign and the decimals.

###Some filters###

```html
{{'1388123412323' | date:'MM/dd/yyyy' @ h:mma'}} //Convert date

{{'octagon gem' | uppercase}} //all upper/lower case

{{'My Description' | limitTo:8}}//limit the number of characters

<li ng-repeat="product in store.products | limiteTo:3">//limit the number of repeats

<li ng-repeat="product in store.products | orderBy> '-price'">//order by "-" = descending order

```
##Dependencies##

	It's good practice to use several modules in an application. So, we'll have app.js, the main module, containing the general behaviour, attached to the html via ng-app.

	We can have products.js, a separated javascript file which contains all the functionality for products.

	When we want our app to know that we have several modules, we can put them in the dependencies of our main module, like:

```javascript
var app = angular.module('store',['store-products']);
```



	
##References

Angular modules: [W3 Schools](http://www.w3schools.com/angular/angular_modules.asp)

Most of the things: [CodeSchool](http://campus.codeschool.com/courses/shaping-up-with-angular-js)
